# -Voltage-Controlled-Oscillator-VCO-using-CMOS-design-


• CMOS is also sometimes referred to as complementary symmetry metal oxide semiconductor (or 
COS-MOS). The words "complementary-symmetry" refer to the fact that the typical digital design 
style with CMOS uses complementary and symmetrical pairs of p-type and n-type metal oxide 
semiconductor field effect transistor (MOSFETs) for logic functions.  A voltage controlled 
oscillator or VCO is an electronic oscillator designed for producing oscillation frequency by a 
controlled input voltage. The frequency of oscillation is varied by the applied controlled 
voltage. A voltage controlled oscillator or VCO is an electronic oscillator designed for 
producing oscillation frequency by a controlled input voltage. The frequency of oscillation is 
varied by the applied controlled voltage. 

•A VCO plays a vital role in communication system, providing a periodic signal required 
for digital circuit and also a frequency transmission in digital circuit. Their output 
frequency is a function of control input voltage. An ideal VCO is a circuit whose output 
frequency is a linear function of its control voltage. Most of the application as required a 
variable control input voltage as they required different frequency. 


• The voltage-controlled oscillator (VCO) plays a very important role in communication systems 
due to low power consumption, wide frequency range of operation and its high integration 
capability.

•It is an electronic device that uses amplification, feedback, and a resonant circuit to generate a repeating voltage waveform at a particular frequency. The frequency, or rate of repetition per unit time, is variable with an applied voltage. VCOs are important integral part of phase locked loops, clock recovery circuits, frequency synthesizers and in almost all digital and analog systems. 


• Phase locked loops (PLLs) are common applications for VCOs based frequency synthesizer is 
usually used in RF transceivers. PLLs can be used for clock generations, such as in a 
microprocessor, clock and Data recovery, such as in an optical transmission system, or frequency synthesis, such as in a wireless radio. 

•The general characteristic for VCOs used in PLL is wide tuning range so that the entire frequency range is covered.Also, the phase noise requirement of the VCO can be loosened due to that when the loop is locked, the noise generated by the VCO at the center of oscillation frequency will be filtered out by the loop bandwidth. As a result, PLLs generally use wide tuning range and noisier ring topology VCO.


# Working principle: 
A ring oscillator is comprised of a number of delay stages, with the output of the last stage fed back to the input of the first.

This current starved VCO is designed using ring oscillator and its operation is also similar to that. From the schematic circuit shown in the Figure 7, it is observed that MOSFETs M1 and M2 operate as an inverter, while MOSFETs M13 and M14 operate as current sources. 

The current sources, M13 and M14, limit the current available to the inverter M1 and M2. 
In other words, the inverter is starved for the current. The MOSFETs M11 and M12 drain currents 
are the same and are set by input control voltage. The currents in M11 and M12 are mirrored in each inverter/current source stage. The upper PMOS transistors are connected to the gate of M11 and source voltage is applied to the gates of all low NMOS Transistors. 

The bias circuit is used to provide correct polarization for transistor M13 and M14. The benefit of this configuration is that the oscillation frequency can be tuned for a wide range by changing the value of control voltage. 

